well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about a
question i got
which is a good question and it's
interesting in and of itself
but it prompts a whole bunch of other
questions
that to me are honestly even more
interesting
the question was specifically about
california
now if you don't know there are law
enforcement officers
all over the country just saying we're
not going to enforce this
we aren't going to enforce these
mandates these regulations when it comes
to the public health stuff
and sometimes it's about lockdowns or
masks or whatever
they're just saying we're not going to
do it
and the question is whether or not they
have the authority
to do this can they just say we're not
going to enforce this law
legally um
i looked and every every law enforcement
officer i found
that was saying this in california was a
sheriff
i looked in every law enforcement
officer i found
period anywhere that was saying they
weren't going to
enforce a mandate was a sheriff
sheriffs have an immense amount of power
more so than a chief of police
i don't know the laws in every state
um what i will say is that in most of
the states that i'm aware of
they do have the ability to kind of hold
enforcing something
until they get a ruling if they doubt
its constitutionality
and since they really don't want to
enforce the law anyway it may take a
while to get that ruling
you know but as far as i'm just saying
you know i don't like our democratic
governor
so i'm not going to enforce this law
this mandate this regulation whatever
that they generally don't have the
authority to do
but it's all in the way it's phrased
because in every single
area every single jurisdiction every
single state that i am aware of
the sheriff has the power to set law
enforcement priorities
meaning if they don't agree with
something they can just de-prioritize
the enforcement
and that sounds at first glance that
sounds like a
power they shouldn't have but they
really should it makes sense
think about it like this if
you don't want law enforcement to have
to expend the same amount of resources
to catch the person who put in enough
change to get
one newspaper out of the rack and took
two
as they expend to catch somebody who did
something like truly horrible
you know that's why it exists
so can they do it simply because they
don't like the governor
probably not can they do it based
on at least a perceived belief that it's
unconstitutional
maybe can they deprioritize it to the
point where it doesn't matter
everywhere that i'm aware of so it
depends on how it's done
but effectively the answer is yeah they
can do it they have that authority
but see that opens up a whole new set of
questions
it removes one of law enforcement's
famous talking points
one of their famous responses anytime
they're out there
enforcing some unpopular law what do
they say
i don't make the law i just enforce it
sheriffs all over the country right now
are showing that's not true
they are showing that when they enforce
an unjust law
they are culpable they're playing a part
in it
they're not a robot they have discretion
and that discretion should be used
wisely
aside from that it opens up yet another
question
if they can pick and choose which laws
to enforce
it seems like they'd be able to pick and
choose who they're enforcing them
against
at which point individual officers have
their biases that come into play
it's a topic that's been real
prominent over the last couple of years
and these sheriffs who are saying we're
not going to enforce
these public health things
they're demonstrating that it's true
even on a deeper level
not just do they have discretion of who
they're going to enforce them against
that they can choose not to enforce it
there are a lot of laws that are unjust
there are a lot of laws that
significantly impact populations
in a manner that is unfair
when officers choose to enforce that
they're making the choice they're
exercising the discretion
that talking point of we don't make the
law we just enforce it
it's plainly being shown to be false
right now
then there's one other question
if law enforcement does
in fact have the ability to disregard
the laws and regulations coming from
elected officials
where does their authority come from the
idea
is that they are theoretically
exercising authority given by the
consent of the governed
but if the elected officials are ignored
they're not really doing that
so where does that authority originate
from
does it solely originate
from their monopoly on violence
it seems like it might that's the
message that's being sent
by these sheriffs
i don't know that they get the long-term
ramifications of what they're doing
to most of them the ones that i saw talk
about it it looks like a short-term
political stunt
but they are undermining a lot of their
own authority
when they do this they feel as though
they're exercising
they feel as though they're showing how
autonomous they are
and i mean that's cool in the john wayne
sense and everything
but as far as the way our society is
structured
they're not supposed to be autonomous
they're not supposed to be unaccountable
people with guns
they're supposed to be public servants
which means they answer to the elected
officials unless of course
their authority doesn't derive from the
public
and it just derives from that monopoly
on violence
anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good day